assassin creed is read about history and
credible work we're playing with a
history that is without trying to spoil
things extends back you know anywhere
from 80 to a hundred thousand years from
today and extends as far into the future
is you know we have time to make games
to specifics about assassins creed the
first one it's a huge universe spanning
across a minute front medium with many
different characters events location for
second wat is the community the
community on Assassin's Creed is
extremely knowledgeable about this
universe and also has very high
expectation about what's coming next in
terms of story so putting all these
things together we realize it was time
to fit everything into wine reliable
source of information actually it really
has been a back-and-forth process
between the enpsychopedia writers and
the games writers to make sure that all
the content of the of the book of the
encyclopedia is really accurate well we
start to by going through all the data
and then we would decide on what
articles we wanted to do and once we
have that settled we would write down
the brief description of the article
send it up to the external writers who
would then return full content to us the
best part about this project was adding
new content and time to get a chance to
work on a brand like Assassin's Creed it
just just makes your day you know we are
covering an unveiling a lot of
information on characters such as alt a
year as you
Desmond eyes subject 16 but also new
assassins such as shall join one of the
very first challenges was dealing with
so much data Sasson screen has been
around for a while has a wealth of
information from both the story
standpoint within the game universe and
just history in general so going through
all of that figuring out what might be
most interesting to put in the
encyclopedia was very much the first
challenge that I encountered the
franchise isn't defined necessarily by a
single character it's defined more by
these institutions so we have the option
of moving in and out of different
historical periods different
geographical locations different
individual important events throughout
human history and so we have a wide
variety of options a lot of different
material that we can mine for ideas and
stories imagine this project as a huge
puzzle with thousands of different
pieces involving a lot of different
people we have the tools to track all
the narrative thread that were creating
so we have database we have Bibles we
have some visual guidelines so my main
role is to make sure everything fits
together so what we did was we tried to
match a specific kinds of content to
writers who mean we knew or figured
would be interested in writing that kind
of stuff some of the biggest expect on
Assassin's Creed actually within the
community so when the time came to start
writing the encyclopedia we realized it
would be a very good to try to seek one
writers coming from from the community
so I hope up the job writing further
encyclopedia on the eb workshop website
and i thought most our video game since
my history says seemed perfect me we
were really surprised by the reaction we
got to hundreds of submission and some
of them were very very good well most of
that I wrote was biographies so of but
if the characters purely from the games
and historical figures behind it make a
long story short instead of hiring one
person we finally hired five riders
coming from the committee what I tried
to do is is dispatch the articles based
on some of the test submissions they
sent in seeing what they liked to write
best and then we kept it contextually
similar we try to minimize the risk of
that overlap
maximize the opportunities of
cross-referencing as for the design
aspect of encyclopedia we worked with a
local agency called ee KU they were
crucial to the creative process for
example during earlier discussions we
decided to only use prediction concept
arts through this tradegy encyclopedia
as opposed to three members or marketing
assets the role of concept that is very
important in the conception of game and
during the early stage of conception we
work on very high level concept so it's
about silhouettes and mood skylines of
the city treatment for the characters
colors it's quite remarkable how much of
the stuff does have its ties to the arc
I think something happened and i'm
pretty sure that readers really scare
some really interesting and new
information for example in da cyclopedia
we're going to reveal some information
about the Templars along among other
things but actually NC could be is going
to have some spoilers so if you haven't
played the game just wait to read it
some secular pea is available in europe
in the Animus edition that you can find
at retail for more information check on
Assassin's Creed calm and it is also
able as a standalone worldwide on you
big ox f dot com
you